Professional Services Champions League (PSCL) is an organization responsible for world championship leagues for the Professional Services and Consulting industry.  The World Championship events include the Financial Modeling World Championships, Big Data Analytics World Championships, Acturial World Championships and Customer Loyalty Gamification World Championships.

 History 
PSCL was founded in 2012 by Johann Odou and John R Persico in Melbourne, Australia. PSCL is a leading global business competition league, attracting over 10,000 professionals and students from 110 countries annually.  Each world championship involves two online qualification rounds, followed by an Top 16 Finals in a host city. Major partners include IBM, Microsoft, KPMG, Thomson Reuters and Intralinks.

 Overview 

 Financial Modeling World Championships 
The competition is among the world's largest international financial modeling competitions for 4,000 professionals and students in Financial Analysis, Investment Banking, Corporate Finance, Accounting, Actuarial and Analytics professionals. The annual Finals are held in New York.

 Big Data Analytics World Championships 
The international business hackathon attracts 2,500 professionals and students in Business Intelligence, Business Analytics, Software Engineering and Big Data disciplines. The annual Finals are held in Austin, Texas. KPMG, IBM, CISCO, Hortonworks are major global partners.

 Customer Loyalty and Gamification World Championships 
The international case study competition has over 2,000 professionals and students participating, typically from Marketing, Innovation and Management Consulting. Major Sponsors include: Acxiom, World Vision, Maritz, LoyaltyOne. The 2015 Finals will be held in Toronto, Canada.

 Actuarial Modeling World Championships 
The international competition is focused on Actuarial Sciences, Insurance and Risk Analysis.

See also
 Financial Modeling
 Big Data
 Gamification
 Actuarial Science
 United States Academic Decathlon
 Student competition
 Student design competition
 TopCoder

References 

External links
Professional Services World Championship League
Financial Modeling World Championship
Big Data Analytics World Championship
Actuarial Sciences World Championship
Customer Loyalty and Gamification World Championship

Category:Competitions
Category:Forecasting competitions
Category:Big data
Category:Finance
Category:Mathematics
Category:Business plan competitions
Category:Intellectual competitions
Category:Student quiz competitions
Category:Quiz games
Category:Challenge awards
Category:United States Academic Decathlon