Medopad Ltd is a British healthcare technology company headquartered in London, UK, with international offices in Salt Lake City, USA, Munich, Germany, and Dubai, UAE. It offers a suite of CE certified iPad applications that integrate health data from existing hospital databases and securely sends it to healthcare professionals' mobile devices.New Scientist, Retrieved 16 June 2014 The solution is registered with FDA and HIPAA compliant. Primary clients are large hospital groups and large pharmaceutical companies, and since 2012, Medopad has been a supplier to the NHS.

Adoption

BMI Healthcare, the largest private hospital group in the UK with nearly 70 hospitals,BMI Healthcare, Retrieved 16 June 2014 has been the first to work with the company, and Medopad is also an NHS supplier. The company was named one of the top 35 European startups to watch by tech.eu in June 2014. In November 2014, Medopad voted best medical app of the year by MEDICA 2014.http://www.medica-tradefair.com BMI Healthcare Medical Director Mark Ferreira said that Medopad is "intuitive, and it kind of works the way doctors think." 

Awards and recognition

 In January 2015, Medopad named most innovative small business in London http://www.competition.greatbusiness.gov.uk/
 In December 2014, the company valued around $100m in latest funding deal http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/businessclub/technology/11291181/App-for-doctors-Medopad-valued-at-50m-in-latest-funding-deal.html
 In November 2014, Medopad voted best medical app of the year by MEDICA 2014
 In November 2014, Medopad listed among the top 100 global digital health companies http://www.thejournalofmhealth.com/#!digital-health-100/c1rdu

Technology and products

Medopad allows hospitals to pool their patient data into a single platform so it can be served up to doctors on apps and mobile devices in real-time. Healthcare professionals can securely access lab results, images, clinical notes, and primary care data via iPads and other mobile devices. In November 2013, Medopad was the first regulatory approved enterprise mobile health solution and received CE approval from the UK Medicines & Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency.

Some of the clinical applications that Medopad includes are Patient Clinical Notes by voice recognition or typing, Scheduling, Lab Results, Image Viewer to view X-rays to CT scans, Support Documents to digitalise all paper documents or to take photos, Video Conferencing, Primary Records, Realtime Vitals, Demographics and Contact Information, Apple HealthKit integration, Realtime Data Stream, Traffic Light to sort and prioritise patients, Admission, and access to more third party applications integrated into Medopad through the Clinical App Store. The Medopad software platform allows programmers and inventors to build clever apps around hospital big data, wearable devices and sensors that can combine data about physical health, activity and location.

thumb|Medopad in the Vodafone pavilion at CeBIT 2014
Medopad launched the first two enterprise integrated Google Glass apps in 2013 and announced them to the world at CeBIT 2014 in Germany. Medopad Google Glass Integration allows doctors to communicate and collaborate, take and share pictures or record video, and view patient records. Medopad Google Glass Alert allows a doctor to identify items they would like to be alerted about and receive the information immediately as it becomes available.

Medopad for pharmaceutical companies 

Patient monitoring solutions built on the Medopad platform provide pharmaceutical companies with instant and near real-time access to patient data: 

1. See how drugs are performing 

2. Segment all patient data by demographic features 

3. Identify and select applicants for field studies 

Involved parties and clients

Medopad strategic partners and clients include General Healthcare Group, Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust, Bayer, Vodafone,BMI Healthcare, East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation Trust, Intel, IBM, InterSystems, Open Text Corporation and Healthcare Gateway.

Among the institutional investors are Healthbox, Sandbox Industries, Bupa, and Bayer. Medopad is the first digital health investment of Bayer.https://www.facebook.com/video.php?v=759324707448273

Among the angel investors are Lord Howard Flight, Tony Brown, Non-Executive Director of the NHS, and Stefan Gries.

The supervisory board includes, among others, John Tate
, BBC’s Director of Policy and Strategy
, and Paul Richardson, NHS executive.

Medopad is one of the founding members of the Manchester mHealth Ecosystem  which consists of six NHS trusts.

References

Further reading
Healthbox London holds demo day; Irish accelerator HealthXL launches | mobihealthnews
The Guardian features Ruth Poole's speech at major European Innovation Day | Healthcare At Home
Mi News - Medopad shortlisted in top 16 in LeWeb Competition
A detailed breakdown of the 16 startups competing at LeWeb London

External links
 

Category:Big data
Category:Software companies based in London