The industrial internet is a term coined by General Electric and refers to the integration of complex physical machinery with networked sensors and software. The industrial Internet draws together fields such as machine learning, big data, the Internet of things and machine-to-machine communication to ingest data from machines, analyze it (often in real-time), and use it to adjust operations.

Examples
The Google driverless car takes in environmental data from roof-mounted LIDAR, uses machine-vision techniques to identify road geometry and obstacles, and controls the car’s throttle, brakes and steering mechanism in real-time.

The Union Pacific Railroad mounts infrared thermometers, microphones and ultrasound scanners alongside its tracks. These sensors scan every train as it passes and send readings to the railroad’s data centers, where pattern-matching software identifies equipment at risk of failure. Falling prices for computing power and networked sensors mean that similar techniques can be applied to small, common devices like machine tools.

See also
 Cloud-based design and manufacturing
 Big data
 SCADA
 Industrial Ethernet
 Internet of Things
 Machine to machine
 Industrial control system
 Industry 4.0
 Intelligent Maintenance Systems

References

External links
 Mark Fell. "Roadmap for the Internet of Things - Its Impact, Architecture and Future Governance" Carré & Strauss, 2014.
 Lohr, Steve. "The Internet Gets Physical" New York Times, December 17, 2011.
 Bruner, Jon. "Defining the industrial Internet" O'Reilly Radar, January 11, 2013.
 Murphy, Chris. "Silicon Valley Needs To Get Out More" InformationWeek, December 7, 2012.
 Loukides, Mike. "To eat or be eaten?" O’Reilly Radar, November 30, 2012.	
 N.P., Ullekh. "How GE’s over $100 billion investment in ‘industrial internet’ will add $15 trillion to world GDP" Economic Times, December 16, 2012.
 Smarr, Larry. "An Evolution Toward a Programmable Universe" New York Times, December 5, 2011.
 Evans, Peter C. and Marco Annunziata. "Industrial Internet: Pushing the Boundaries of Minds and Machines" GE white paper, November 26, 2012.
 Bacidore, Mike. "Are your prepared to work in an autonomous plant?", PlantService, March 2013.
 

Category:Industrial automation
Category:Industrial computing
Category:Internet of Things
Category:Technology forecasting
Category:Big data
 "NSF Industry/University Cooperative Research Center on Intelligent Maintenance Systems"