Sumo Logic is a cloud-based log management and analytics service that leverages machine-generated big data to deliver real-time IT insights. Headquartered in Redwood City, California, Sumo Logic was founded in April 2010 by ArcSight veterans Kumar Saurabh and Christian Beedgen, and has received funding from Accel Partners, Greylock Partners, Sequoia Capital, Sutter Hill Ventures and angel investor Shlomo Kramer. While Sumo Logic remained in stealth mode for two years, it unveiled its cloud-based log management platform with Series B funding of $15 million in January 2012. The round of Series D funding announced in May 2014 brings the company’s total venture capital backing to $80.5 million.

Technology
Sumo Logic’s architecture features an elastic petabyte scale platform that collects, manages, and analyzes enterprise log data, reducing millions of log lines into operational and security insights in real time. Their cloud-based approach overcomes the inherent problems of premise-based solutions, including limits on scalability, inefficient or haphazard analysis, and uncontrolled costs.

Sumo Logic is built around a globally distributed data retention architecture that keeps all log data available for instant analysis, eliminating the need for an enterprise to manage the cost and complexity of data archiving, backups and restoration.

The service is entirely cloud-based and is maintenance free. Instead of inelastic security information and event management systems, Sumo Logic employs elastic processing to collect, manage, and analyze log data, regardless of type, volume, or location.

Sumo Logic modeled its approach on that of Google, according to Christian Beedgen, the company’s CTO and one of its co-founders. Using advanced machine-learning algorithms to whittle down mountains of log file data into common groupings, Sumo Logic's platform mirrors Google News's categorization of news stories distributed across the web. In doing so, Sumo Logic is able to ease the process for administrators to synthesize and analyze their data.

In June 2012, Sumo Logic announced Sumo Logic Free, a freemium full functionality edition of its analytical solution that is deployed on Amazon Web Services, and in August 2012, the company announced Sumo Logic for VMware, which allows enterprises to search, visualize and analyze all VMware logs in real time so they can monitor and detect events within VMware virtual environments.

Leadership
Sumo Logic was founded in 2010 by a technical leadership team with expertise in log management, scalable systems, Big Data and security, including:
 Kumar Saurabh, Acting CEO, Co-Founder & Vice President of Analytics, formerly of ArcSight
 Christian Beedgen, Co-Founder & CTO, formerly of ArcSight
 Bruno Kurtic, Founding Vice President of Product and Strategy, formerly of Sensage

Vance Loiselle, formerly of BladeLogic, joined Sumo Logic as Chief Executive Officer in May 2012.

In April 2012, Sumo Logic formed a new advisory board, bringing in three Silicon Valley veterans: DJ Patil of Greylock Partners, Gerhard Eschelbeck of Sophos, and Nir Zuk of Palo Alto Networks.

Patents
Sumo Logic’s service is powered by patent-pending Elastic Log Processing, LogReduce, and Push Analytics technologies.

Awards and Recognition
In January, 2012, RSA named Sumo Logic one of its top 10 finalists for the Most Innovative Company at RSA. At the April 2012 Under the Radar Conference, Sumo Logic received the Judge's Choice and the Audience Choice Awards for Performance Monitoring. In May 2012, Sumo Logic was named a Red Herring Americas 2012 Top 100 Winner.

In May 7, 2014, Sumo Logic was named as a Cool Vendor by Gartner in the Application Performance Monitoring (APM) and IT Operations Analytics (ITOA) categories.

See also
 AppDynamics
 Logentries
 Loggly
 New Relic
 Splunk

References

Category:Big data
Category:Companies established in 2010
Category:Companies based in Redwood City, California
Category:Computer security companies
Category:Computer data
Category:Data security
Category:Information technology management
Category:Information technology companies of the United States
Category:Network management
Category:Privately held companies based in California
Category:Security companies
Category:System administration