Zoomdata. is a Reston, Virginia-based data visualization and analytics company founded in 2012. Its aim is "to process large volumes of data faster and present users with their results more quickly."

Technology

Zoomdata markets a data visualization and analytics tool that allows customers to explore and analyze the vast quantities of data in their datastores. The product is different from other tools in the industry due to a patent the company holds around “Data Sharpening". The approach involves returning the results of a query that is run instantly, while the image ‘sharpens’ and becomes clearer as more data is processed. The product includes a connector studio that directly connects to database, search, streaming, flat file and in-memory data sources. Matt Asay of readwrite.com compared it watching a streaming movie, where you see some results immediately, soon followed by the whole.

Zoomdata also gives users access to the company’s D3.js-based Visualization Studio to edit D3 code and create custom visualizations from within the tool. With the Visualization Studio, users can “live-code” and view changes they are making as they type.

Investors

In November 2012 Zoomdata announced a $1.1 million seed round with funding from a series of angel investors. In July 2013 Zoomdata raised a $4.1 million Series A round led by Columbus Nova Technology Partners (CNTP) with participation from New Enterprise Associates (NEA), CIT GAP Funds, Razor’s Edge Ventures and B7.  The company announced a $17 million Series B led by Accel Partners in October 2014 with participation from existing investors NEA, CNTP, Razor’s Edge Ventures, and B7.

Management

CEO Justin Langseth previously founded four other startups: Strategy.com, Claraview, Clarabridge and Augaroo  and currently holds 14 technology Patents. CFO Bob Aldrich was the CFO of Parature (acquired by Microsoft in January 2014).  VP of Marketing and Business Development Russ Cosentino was on the founding teams at Clarabridge and Brainbench, VP of Sales Tom Ulrich was head of Sales at Actian and Gridpoint, VP of Product Management Farzad Aref led consulting services team at Clarabridge, IBM and Deloitte, VP of Engineering Jorge Alarcon previously led technology efforts at Clarabridge, Global Computer Enterprises, CACI and AMS and VP of Customer Solutions Ruhollah Farchtchi led Big Data efforts at Unisys and analytics at Booz Allen.

References

Category:2012 establishments in Virginia
Category:Big data
Category:Business intelligence companies
Category:Companies based in Reston, Virginia
Category:Companies established in 2012