cVidya Networks is a provider of Revenue Analytics solutions for communications and digital service providers. cVidya’s portfolio includes solutions for business protection and business growth, including Revenue Assurance, Fraud Management, Marketing Analytics and Sales Performance Management solutions.
The company has 300 employees in 18 countries and has over 150 customers worldwide.
cVidya's investors include Battery Ventures, Carmel Ventures, Hyperion, StageOne, Saints Capital and Plenus.

History

cVidya was founded in 2001 by Alon Aginsky in the US and saw successful projects at Telecom Italia and Bezeq within its first couple of years.

Between 2004–2010 cVidya became one of the leading vendors in the Revenue Assurance domain with the MoneyMap® product suite, and gained global market penetration which began with their entrance into Europe followed closely by LATAM, APAC, North America and Africa.

cVidya’s acquisition of ECtel in 2010 cVidya Wraps ECtel Acquisition. Billingworld.com was a major milestone for the company. By acquiring the larger, publicly traded company and through consolidating their product portfolios cVidya added the FraudView® Fraud Management product and integrated it to its Revenue Analytics solutions portfolio.

In 2011 cVidya adds Risk Management product to its portfolio and launches the Education Center service, offering Revenue Assurance and Fraud Management eLearning courses to industry professionals.cVidya launches eLearning education center. TelecomAsia.net In that same year, Gartner Ranks cVidya as the global market leader.Gartner Puts cVidya at Top of Revenue Assurance Market. Billingworld.com

In 2013 cVidya expands its portfolio, adding Big Data Analytics capabilities and Marketing Analytics solution suite.cVidya Launches Powerful Marketing Analytics Suite. TelcoProfessionals.com

Pictures

External links
 cVidya website

 References 

Category:Revenue assurance
Category:Big data
Category:Software companies of Israel
Category:Business intelligence companies
Category:Revenue services
Category:Consulting firms