Data literacy is the ability to read, create and communicate data as information and has been formally described in varying ways. Discussion of the skills inherent to data literacy and possible instructional methods have emerged as data collection becomes routinized and talk of data analysis and big data has become commonplace in the news, business, government  and society in countries across the world.

Related terms

Data literacy focuses on the ability to build knowledge from data, and to communicate that meaning to others. It is related to other fields, including:
 Media literacy
 Information literacy
 New literacies
 Numeracy
 Transliteracy
 21st-century skills

 Definitions 
 A traditional view emphasizes the numeric, statistical nature of data as information, including "... understanding what data mean, including how to read graphs and charts appropriately, draw correct conclusions from data, and recognize when data are being used in misleading or inappropriate ways".
 A more progressive view describes data literacy as "... the ability to: formulate and answer questions using data as part of evidence-based thinking; use appropriate data, tools, and representations to support this thinking;interpret information from data; develop and evaluate data-based inferences and explanations;and use data to solve real problems and communicate their solutions."
 A workforce-focused example includes varying technical and digital formats by describing data literacy as "... competence in finding, manipulating, managing, and interpreting data, including not just numbers but also text and images."
Applications
 Journalism
 Education"Teacher Data Literacy: It's About Time" Data Quality Campaign
List of libraries provided Data literacy
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s (MIT) Data Management and Publishing tutorial, 
The EDINA Research Data Management Training (MANTRA), 
The University of Edinburgh’s Data Library and 
The University of Minnesota libraries’ Data Management Course for Structural Engineers.
 References 

Category:Computing and society
Category:Technology in society
Category:Literacy
Category:Mathematics education
Category:Big data