Platfora, Inc. is a big data analytics company based in San Mateo, California. The firm’s software works in tandem with the open-source software framework Apache Hadoop to assist companies and government organizations with rapid data analysis, data visualization, and sharing.

 History 
Platfora was founded in 2011 by Ben Werther. Werther studied Computer Science at Stanford University. Prior to founding Platfora, he worked at There Inc., Siebel Systems, Microsoft, and Greenplum.
In 2011, Werther met regularly with former coworkers John Eshleman and SriSatish Ambati in a café in downtown San Mateo, California. At one of these meetings, while discussing the technical process of big data analysis, Werther realized that he could develop software that paired with Hadoop to greatly speed up data analysis and visualization. Werther sought financing to start Platfora; Eshleman was initially an adviser, and later joined Platfora as founding vice president of technology. Ambati formed his own company, Oxdata.

Platfora received funding from Andreessen Horowitz, Battery Ventures, Sutter Hill Ventures, Tenaya Capital, Citi Ventures, Cisco, Allegis Capital and In-Q-Tel, the venture fund of the Central Intelligence Agency. Series C funding was $38 million. As of April 2014, total funding stood at $65 million.

Platfora is one of several new big data analytics companies that industry analysts expect to compete with established firms including SAP, IBM, SAS, and Oracle, whose older methods of data analysis and visualization are currently more time consuming.

 Product 
Platfora’s software works with the open-source software framework Apache Hadoop; when a user queries a database, the product delivers answers in real time via a graphical user interface. Bloomberg Businessweek called it “Big Data for Dummies.” A corporate or government data analyst can use the interface to filter results, or drag and drop fields to create graphs, overlays, and other visualizations of the data. The analyst can then share those data visualizations and answers with others.

Customers
American Express, JP Morgan Chase, Bank of New York, Cox Automotive, Opower, Disney, Riot Games, Edmunds.com, Sears, Vivint, The Washington Post, Opower, Citi, Unisys, Groupon, AutoTrader, TUI Travel among many others.

 Awards and recognition 
CRN Magazine named Platfora’s software one of “The 10 Coolest Big Data Products of 2013.” 
Platfora’s software was also voted a winner at the Big Data Festival in Kansas City, where it was used to analyze the city’s crime data.  CIO Magazine ranked Platfora number 1 on the "10 Hot Hadoop Startups to Watch" list.

 See also 
 Big data
 Data science
 Apache Hadoop
 Map Reduce
 In-Q-Tel

 References 

 External links 
 Official website
 Patents by John Eshleman
 Big Data Festival website

Category:Big data
Category:Software companies based in California