People analytics is a rapidly growing area of business intelligence and big data technology that uses snippets of people-related data to optimize business outcomes and solve business problems. Experts within the field, including Ben Waber and Alex Pentland, contend that people analytics tools can be effectively applied across all parts of the modern enterprise in order to transform operations and workforces. The proliferation of electronic communications combined with big data advancements provides unprecedented insights for organizational managers via people analytics applications.

 Applications 
People analytics applications are capable of implementation across a range of industries, from public utilities to software firms. Additionally, people analytics is effectively applied to a wide variety of organizational units, including human resources (using retention data and talent acquisition) and sales (using outreach tactics and communication practices), as well as overall employee engagement.
 
Data science research has repeatedly identified positive correlations between strong internal networks within organizations and employee productivity and engagement. People analytics tools are also capable of comprehensive analysis at multiple levels within organizations. Specifically, people analytics data can be reviewed at an individual level (e.g. for hiring purposes), at the unit level (e.g. to identify significant team-related trends), and at the organizational level (e.g. to identify optimal mix of resources for specific organizational goals).

In a 2013 Bloomberg Businessweek article, Ben Waber describes the versatility of people analytics tools:
 

 Business Cases 
The benefits of people analytics applications have been documented in a number of studies conducted within high-profile global firms.

Bank of America implemented people analytics solutions in order to mitigate widespread employee dissatisfaction in specific business units. At times, the company experienced annual employee turnover as high as 40% in its US call centers. After introducing a tailored big data analytics program to compare performance metrics, the company recognized that inter-office collaboration was highly correlated with employee success. In order to increase the level of organizational collaboration, Bank of America revised the employee break schedule in order to maximize time for communication and network building. This simple update to work schedules resulted a 23% increase in call handling rates and an 18% improvement in employee cohesion within just 3 months, saving the company $15 million.

In a 2014 Harvard Business Review article, VoloMetrix CEO Ryan Fuller discusses how his firm provided people analytics solutions to the sales unit of a large B2B software company.  Sales data was collected over 18 months in order to analyze successful employee sales habits. At the conclusion of the study, data scientists discovered that the size of internal networks and time spent with managers was highly predictive of exceptional sales achievements. The insights extracted from the people analytics tools were especially beneficial due to their actionability. Employees and managers were offered specific metrics to analyze personal sales tactics, as well as clear, prioritized goals for improved sales operations and productivity.

 Occupational Impact 
The recent recognition of people analytics as a valuable business segment has paved the way for a multitude of new career paths in the corporate world, largely among global enterprises including Google and Facebook. Interpretation of people analytics data often requires advanced understanding of statistics and data science. Due to the rapid advancement of big data capabilities and people analytics applications, many firms predict a surge in data-related career opportunities over the next decade. Brian Sullivan, CEO of CTParters (a global executive search firm), made the following statement regarding the firm's "Hot Jobs 2015" report released in Fall 2014:

 Research and Literature 
Alex Pentland has described the benefits of people analytics and big data applications at length in Social Physics. Pentland highlights numerous people analytics applications and studies conducted at large global enterprises by his team and various MIT research programs.

References

Category:Business intelligence
Category:Big data