Rocket Fuel () is a provider of a programmatic media-buying platform that utilizes artificial intelligence (AI), big data, and predictive modeling to autonomously real-time bid (RTB) on digital media ad impressions across web, video, mobile, and social media. Rocket Fuel's platform evaluates millions of data points (such as shopping behavior, loyalty data, weather, and demographics) to score and predict the likelihood that users surfing the web, tablet, or mobile devices will respond to advertising. It then bids on the impressions to reach those users. To tailor results, the software learns and improves with each transaction by using machine-learning algorithms.

The company was founded by George John, Richard Frankel and Abhinav Gupta. John serves as Rocket Fuel’s CEO while Frankel is the company’s president. Gupta serves as Rocket Fuel’s senior vice president of engineering.
 
History
Based in Redwood City, CA, Rocket Fuel was founded in 2008 by George John, Richard Frankel, and Abhinav Gupta, all Yahoo! alumni.

In September 2012, Rocket Fuel partnered with Facebook’s FBX (Facebook Exchange), bringing users customized ads based on their web surfing habits on other sites.

In October 2012, Rocket Fuel expanded into Japan through an alliance with cyber communications inc. (cci). cci is Tokyo-based Dentsu Inc.’s digital subsidiary.

Rocket Fuel completed its initial public offering in September 2013.

In April 2014, Rocket Fuel partnered with TransUnion to work with financial service companies on advertising. Rocket Fuel also partnered with the non-profit organization, KidsVision, on a six-week educational after-school program called STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math).

In June 2014, Ernst & Young announced George John and Richard Frankel as the EY Entrepreneurs of the Year in the Digital Advertising Category.

Rocket Fuel acquired the New York-based ad tech company [x+1] in August 2014 for $230 million.

References

Further reading
RocketFuel CEO: Google fantastic player
IPO Dot-Com Bubble Echo Seen Muted as Older Companies Debut
Rocketing Out of Coalwood: How AI Will Transform Business—and Lives
11 Dos and Don’ts of Programmatic Advertising

External links

Cyber Communications Inc. site
Wall Street Journal: "Rocket Fuel CEO George John: Investors Aren’t Afraid of Ad Tech"

Category:Big data
Category:Technology companies established in 2008
Category:2008 establishments in California
Category:Companies based in Redwood City, California
Category:Companies listed on NASDAQ
Category:Internet advertising