Michael B.T. Bell (born 1957) is an American enterprise software architect, chiefly recognized for developing the Service-oriented modeling framework (SOMF) and the cloud computing modeling notation (CCMN). His innovative research and publications in the fields of software architecture, service-oriented architecture, model-driven engineering, cloud computing, and big data are recognized internationally for their contribution to the software design and development communities.

 Biography 

Bell earned his computer science master’s degree in 1992 from the City University of New York (CUNY).

After graduation, as a software developer and enterprise architect consultant, he dedicated his career to improving business and technological operations of financial institutions in Wall Street. He developed innovative software algorithms and methodologies for high-volume Electronic trading platforms. This included modules for execution of trading applications, persistence methods for large volumes of data, and design of  high-speed network and internet software implementations.

J.P. Morgan Chase, Citibank,  UBS-Paine Webber, Deutsche Bank, American Express, TD Waterhouse, Pfizer, AIG, and Prudential were among the many firms which Mr. Bell contributed his expertise to.

 Bell’s Service-Oriented Modeling Methodology 

thumb|360px|right|Service-Oriented Modeling Framework (SOMF) Version 2.0
In 2008 Bell introduced the Service-oriented modeling framework (SOMF)  to the software development community in his book Service-Oriented Modeling.

The service framework, driven by Discipline-specific modeling, was devised to encourage consolidation of software assets, reduction of systems redundancy, and acceleration of time-to-market. SOMF   includes a modeling language and a life cycle methodology (see image on the far right) suited for narrowing the gap between the business and the information technology organizations in the enterprise.

The framework also includes modeling disciplines and practices of software systems, for the purpose of designing software applications. Furthermore, SOMF            offers a variety of architectural styles, such as enterprise architecture, application architecture, service-oriented architecture, and cloud computing.

 Publications 

Michael Bell has published several books and articles. The following is a selection:
 2005. "An Organizational Model: The AOM-3, Architecture Organization Structure and Role Models". IP Publishing. ISBN 978-0-9896935-3-0
 2006. "Service-Oriented Architecture: A Planning and Implementation Guide for Business and Technology". With Eric Marks. Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-0471768944
 2008. "Service-Oriented Modeling: Service Analysis, Design, and Architecture". Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-0470141113
 2010. "SOA Modeling Patterns for Service Oriented Discovery and Analysis". Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-0470481974
 2011. Service Oriented Modeling Specifications for SOMF. Includes Service design and cloud computing.

 References 

 External links 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Category:Living people
Category:Software engineers
Category:Service-oriented architecture
Category:American software engineers
Category:Big data
Category:1957 births